# OSC Summer Institute 1994

## SuperViz '94 Showcases Excellent Science -- Area HS Students Featured in Supercomputing Video

December 8, 1994

For Immediate Release

Contact: Cheryl Johnson, (614)292-6067
fax: (614)292-7168
cjohnson@osc.edu
SuperViz '94 Showcases Excellent Science -- Ohio Research Featured in
Supercomputing Video

COLUMBUS, OH: The Ohio Supercomputer Center (OSC) announces that five science
video animations produced at the center were among the 34 selected for the
International Supercomputing '94 Conference showcase video, SuperViz '94, as
excellent examples of scientific research.

Three projects were selected from Ohio's academic research community who use OSC
resources. Prof. John Arnfield, The Ohio State Univ.; Prof. Glenn Johnson,
Macquarie Univ., Sydney, Australia; and Tim Rozmajzl, OSC, visualize research on
the Dispersion of Carbon Monoxide. The animation represents wind blowing across
the top of city buildings causing a vortex motion within the urban canyon, and
carbon monoxide being released from cars moving along the roadway. The ultimate
objective of this research is to understand the relative importance of the
factors that influence the climate of urban canyons and their importance in
determining heat exchange with the urban atmosphere above.

OSC scientists Moti Mittal, Upper Arlington, and Tim Rozmajzl, Columbus,
depicted Coal Particles in a Combustor with an animation showing the trajectory
of coal particles that vary in size and react in a surrounding hot medium, such
as observed in a furnace. Colors are used to represent temperature intensities
with red indicating the hotter particles to blue for the cooler particles. This
research strives to use advanced computational techniques to develop methods to
more efficiently burn coal.

Dr. Comer Duncan, Bowling Green State Univ., and Dr. Phil Hughes, Univ. of
Michigan, produced Relativistic Jet Simulation. The animation depicts a
simulation of a relativistic extragalactic jet with Lorentz factor of 5.0 and
adiabatic index of 5/3 for the gas. A pattern of internal shocks, a bow shock,
and the Kelvin-Helmholtz instability are evident. Studies show that the more
relativistic flows are much less prone to disruption by the Kelvin-Helmholtz
instability than are non-relativistic flows.

With the assistance of OSC staff Tim Rozmajzl, Leslie Southern, and Rob Berry,
two of the projects were created by high school students who participated in
OSC's 1994 Summer Institute program. Jonathan Berry, Rutherford B. Hayes H. S.;
Bart Kelsey, Findlay H. S.; and Matthew McElheny, Hilliard H. S., teamed up to
produce Surfaces, Lighting, and Viewing, an animation representing a surface
generated with a mathematical function. The students investigated the effects of
varying the amplitude and period of the sine trigonometric function over 180
iterations, generated polygonal geometries, and determined lighting and
viewpoints.

Jason Abele, Gahanna Lincoln H. S.; Kevin Huffenberger, Upper Arlington H. S.;
and Misha Leybman, Worthington Kilbourne H. S. produced N-Body Particle
Dynamics, an animation representing several particles moving in space. The only
force applied to the particles is the gravitational attraction of the other
particles. Students investigated the effects of varying the mass of selected
particles.

Supercomputing '94 was November 14-18, 1994, in Washington D.C. This conference
focused on research and education in computational science and engineering.
Particular emphasis was given to applications in biology and medicine, design
and manufacturing, and environmental issues. The educational activities at
Supercomputing '94 spanned the spectrum from K-12 through graduate school.

The OSC is chartered to advance the use of high performance computing resources
and digital communications on the Global Information Infrastructure. OSC
addresses the technology-related needs of Ohio's academic, industry, and
research communities through varied initiatives including biomedical technology,
visualization, support of k-12 and higher education, high-speed networking,
information storage, industrial outreach, and public service.

News Releases / cjohnson@osc.edu
URL: http://www.osc.edu/News/SuperViz94r.html
